FCC - Data Analysis


Reference: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-uOLxNrNk8


52:50




I. Overview

1. What Is Data Analysis?
2. Real Example Data Analysis With Python
3. How To Use Jupyter Notebooks
4. Intro To NumPy
5. Intro To Pandas
6. Data Cleaning
7. Reading Data SQL, CSVs, APIs, etc.
8. Python In Under 10 Minutes




II. What Is Data Analysis?


Data Analysis
    A process of inspecting, cleansing, transforming and modeling data with the goal of discovering useful information, informing conclusion and supporting decision-making.


Why Python For Data Analysis:
    very simple and intuitive to learn.
    "correct" language.
    powerful libraries.
    free and open source.
    amazing community, docs and conferences.


When To Choose R:
    when R Studio is needed.
    when dealong with advanced statistical methods.
    when extreme performance is needed.

   
Data Analysis Process
    Data Extraction
        the process of retrieving raw data from diverse sources and converting it into a usable format for analysis, storage, or integration (eg. SQL, scrapping, file formats, consulting APIs, & buying data).
    Data Cleansing
        essential process of finding and fixing inaccurate, incomplete, corrupted, or irrelevent data in a dataset to improve its quality, consistency, and usability for analysis, business intelligence, and AI (eg. missing values and empty data, data imputation, & incorrect types).
    Data Wrangling
        the process of cleaning, structuring, and transforming raw data into a clean, high quality format that is ready for analysis and decision-making (eg. hierarchial data, handling categorical data, reshaping & transforming structured data).
    Analysis
        proces of collecting, cleaning, transforming, and interpreting data to uncover useful information, identify patterns, and support decision-making (eg. exploration, building statistical models, visualization and representations, correlation v. causation analysis).
    Action
        fact or process of doing something, typically to achieve an aim (eg. building machine learning models, feature engineering, moving ML into production, building ETL pipelines, etc).


Python Ecosystem:
    pandas: the cornerstone of our data analysis job with pPython.
    matplotlib: the foundational library for visualizations. Other libraries we'll use will be built on top of matplotlib.
    numpy: the numeric library that serves as the foundation of all calculations in Python.
    seaborn: a statistical visualization tool built on top of matplotlib.
    statsmodels: a library with many advanced statisical functions.
    scipy: advanced scientific computing, including functions for optimization, linear algebra, image processing & much more.
    scikit-learn: the most popular machine learning library for Python (!= deep learning).


How Python Data Analysts Think:
    utulizes the Python programming language and its extensive libraries to perform various data related tasks, including data mining, analysis, & visualization.
    

Real Example Data Analyis With Python

CSV: sales_data.csv

import numpy as np
import pandas as gd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

%matplotlib inline


data frame
    (pandas) - two dimensional labeled data structure with columns of potentially different types. It is similar to a spreadsheet, a SQL table, or a dictionary of Series objects. Data frames are a fundamental tool in Data Science and analysis in Python due to their flexibility and intuitive way of organizing and manipulating data.


Example:
Unit_Cost column:

count: 113016.800000
mean: 267.29366
std:549.835483
min: 1.80000
25%: 2.00000
50%: 9.00000
75%: 42.00000
max: 2171:00000
Name: Unit_Cost
dtype: float64




III. How To Use Jupyter Notebooks

Jupyter Notebook
    is a language agnostic HTML notebook application for Project Jupyter. It allows data scientists to create and share documents that include live code, equations, & other multimedia resources.


Jupyter Notebook Keyboard Shortcuts:
    Reference: https://towardsdatascience.com/jypyter-notebook-shortcuts-bf0101a98330/
        Command Mode: key operating state that allows users to naviagte and manipulate cells at a notebook level using single key shortcuts.
        Editor Mode: allows you to type and modify the content within a cell, functioning like a standard text editor.
        Markdown Mode: "m" key - switch to markdown.
        Python Mode: "y" - switch to Python mode.
        Run Code: Ctrl + Enter / Shift + Return.
        Delete Cell: "d" key (2 times).
        Undo Delete: "z" key.
        Cut / Copy / Paste: "x" "c" and "v" key.
    

Retrieve Data From API:
    Jupyter Tutorial: https://colab.research.google.com/github/rmotr-curriculum/ds-content-interactive-jupyterlab-tutorial/blob/master/Tutorial.ipynb
    Market Data Rest API: https://www.marketdata.app/docs/api/
    Bokeh Documentation: https://docs.bokeh.org/en/2.4.1/docs/user_guide/jupyter.html







